Open claw and lossless claw new free
memory upgrade. So open claw has a
serious problem. Most people don't even
realize it. So every time your
conversation gets too long. Sometimes
your AI quietly erases everything you
told it. Your instructions, your
context, your entire project history
gone. And it starts acting like it
doesn't remember things inside the
conversation. It loses track. It
struggles with memory sometimes. And
that means that your personal assistant,
your open claw is not set up in the
right way, remembering things and it
forgets everything you tell it. So,
there's a brand new free plugin just
dropped that fixes this completely. It's
called Lossless Claw, and it just hit
1,000 stars on GitHub in days. Even the
founder of OpenClaw, Peter Steinberger,
has recommended it, as you can see right
here. And it does something that no
other OpenClaw plug-in has done before.
It gives your AI a permanent memory that
never deletes anything ever. So, in this
video, I'm going to show you how to
install it in one command free, set it
up properly, and then test it live to
see if it actually works. If it does
what it says, your open claw is about to
get dramatically more powerful for
bigger projects and also searching
through your chat history. So if you've
never used this before, this is
something called lossless claw and it's
available on GitHub. So it's kind of
like a a skill you can install directly
from GitHub to open claw. Now you do
have to be careful with the stuff that
you install to open claw. So always
check the skill MD files and everything
else. Um but you can see here that the
founder of open claw actually recommends
it. So um that's why I've installed it
as well. Basically this is lossless
context management right for openclaw
and basically what it does is it
replaces openclaw's built-in sliding
window compaction right with a DAG based
summarization system now I'll explain
what all of this means in plain English
in a second but basically what it does
is when a conversation grows beyond the
model's context open claw normally
truncates all the older messages right
now using lossless claw it persists
every message instead summarizes chunks
of older messages It condenses
summaries. It assembles context and it
provides tools so agents can actually
search and recall datails um from comped
history, right? So nothing is lost.
Basically raw messages stay in the
database. Summaries link back to their
source messages. Most importantly,
agents can basically drill into any
summary to recover the original detail.
So it feels like talking to an agent
that never forgets because it literally
doesn't. Whereas um you know before you
have been there where I've been like can
you remember this or have you set this
up and it's like what are you talking
about me right? it doesn't remember
everything. So, this is a much more
powerful way to set up and it fixes one
of the biggest problems with OpenClaw.
Now, if you want to install this, you
can see I've already got it running
right here. So, you can see losses claw
is running. If you're wondering how we
installed it, let me find an example um
of how you can quickly do this in like
one click, one quick command. So,
basically what you do is you paste in
the GitHub URL from this project, right?
So, this is the GitHub URL for lossless
claw LCM, lossless context management.
And basically all you do is you copy
this URL of GitHub. You go back into
your open claw. You paste it inside the
chat here and you say install this. Then
from there you're going to wait about 5
minutes for it to install and you just
install it in one click. And from there
it's literally set up, right? So it's
good to go. And if you want to check if
it's working,
you can just go inside the chat and say
is Blossus Claw running. And you can see
here it will give you the details,
right? So it'll tell you what version
it's on, what the state is, so it should
be loaded, the plug-in name itself, and
then also
um it can give you ideas on like how to
improve the setup of this. All right, so
it's a free way to just instantly fix um
the issues that come with with managing
the memory of your AI agent. So it
becomes a lot smarter and that will also
work not just across your gateway inside
your local um UI, but also it will run
directly inside Telegram and that sort
of Now, if you're wondering, okay, what
can you do with this? There's some
practical ways to use it, right? But
basically, instead of old chat history
getting chopped off, uh, it stores raw
messages, builds summary layers, and
lets the agent recover detail later and
then keeps long conversations usable
without the quality of the outputs
um, going down, right? some practical
ways to use this like for example if
you've got a long running thread for
everything you know for example like one
main assistant session that you use for
days or project threads that keep going
or ongoing research without it older
context gets compacted in a less smart
way with it with losses claw the agent
can keep more coherent continuity also
it's persistent right so this is super
useful if you're like planning content
or strategies or um building a product
or researching on one niche it's really
useful because you can revisit a thread
after days. And if you want the agent to
remember what happened, you can use
this, right? Also super useful for like
long coding sessions. And then also,
let's be honest, like if you've got a
long window, like for example, you can
see inside openclaw here. It's a super
long window of all these different
things that we're asking it. Basically,
this will handle the memory and search
through everything way faster. So that's
basically how it works, how to set up,
how to use it for free, um why you would
use it, etc. Now, how does it actually
work, right? So in the simplest possible
way, imagine your AI conversation is a
giant filing cabinet, right? Normally
when the filing cabinet gets full,
someone just throws the oldest files in
the trash on open claw, right? So your
agent just removes or deletes old
information and can't find it again.
Lossless claw does it differently. So
instead of throwing files away,
basically takes like little photos of
them and stores them in a safe, right?
And these photos are called summaries.
And then it organizes those summaries
into a smart tree structure called a d a
directed axilic cyclic graph. Now don't
worry about that word. Just think of it
like a tree for your memories. The agent
can climb up and down that tree to find
anything that you've ever discussed. So
nothing gets thrown away and everything
is save forever. Now you might be
wondering okay where is everything
stored then? How does it store all this
stuff? So it stores everything in an SQL
light database on your computer. SQ Lite
is a simple fast file on your hard drive
with no complicated setup, right? And by
default, it will save it to this
database right here. And you can change
where actually saves this using the
simple setting which you can see below
inside the um video notes here. Right?
So there's three new tools your agent
gets, three new superpowers. We've lost
this claw. LCM GP, which is lets your
agent search for everything, right? So
you can just do like a control and F
almost um when you ask it something. LCM
describe. So it lets your agent read a
summary of any past moment in a
conversation just giving it a bird's eye
view of what happened before and then
LCM expand right so this lets your agent
zoom into any summary and recover the
original details so if anything got
summarized it can unsummarize it and get
the full picture back and then if you
want to install it you just make sure
you have openclaw installed NodeJS
version 22 or higher and then an LLM
provider set up right then you're going
to run this command or you can just
paste in the GitHub URL and ask it to
install it you can also add these
recommended settings so you can add
inside your terminal inside openclaw
these three environmental variables
right here right if you're wondering
what they mean so LCM fresh tail count
is basically this keeps the last 32
messages in full detail at all times
right so it's like keeping the last 32
pages of your notebook unfolded on your
desk so your agent always has fresh
recent context without needing to dig
through uh summaries LCM incremental max
def minus one this basically tells the
plug-in to automatically organize
summaries as deep as needed, right? So,
it's like a infinitely tall filing
cabinet that organizes itself. So,
setting it to minus one means no limit.
You can go as deep as you need to. And
then LCM context threshold 0.75. This
tells the plug-in start compacting when
the context window is 75% full, right?
Which leaves a 25% buffer. So, your
agent always has room to respond without
running out of context. And without this
buffer, the agent could run out of space
midfall. You can also stop your sessions
from resetting with this example right
here. So sometimes open claw resets your
session after a period of inactivity and
when the session resets it's like
starting a brand new conversation and
this can happen even with lossless claw
installed. So you can actually use this
to make sure that your session doesn't
reset. Um and that's basically it.
That's how it works step by step.
There's also a TUI apparently as well a
terminal UI and you can see the full
details of that here. Right? So you can
see that right there. Basically, what
this means is that this comes with a
terminal UI, a visual app you can run in
your terminal, right, which lets you
browse your entire memory database
visually, remove or delete any summaries
you don't need, repair corrupted
summaries, and copy summaries between
conversations. This is optional, but
it's like a nice little advanced way to
manage the memory of open claw. You
might also be wondering, will this slow
my AI agent down? The answer is no. The
summarization uh the summarization
happens in the background after each
turn, so your agent keeps working at
full speed. They're usually short and
efficient, so it's not like using lots
of tokens. If something goes wrong, the
TUI actually has built-in repair tools.
And then also, you can use a different
AR model just for summarization. So,
almost like having a sub agent, but you
can change the LLM provider to use like
a cheaper model for memory tasks as well
to save tokens. So, just to recap on
everything that we've talked about
today, right? So, the problem AI agents
forget everything when their context
window fills up. The solution is
lossless claw saves every message to a
database and summarizes older content
into a smart DAG structure. Nothing is
deleted and you can install it with one
command. You can also set three
environmental variables to fix um that
even more. You can bump up your session
idle time as well so that it doesn't
remove the layer sessions and your agent
now gets three new tools. There's an
optional TUI available for browsing and
managing your memory database and it's
free open source under the MIT license
built by Martian Engineering. It's
already got a thousand GitHub stars.
It's already been mentioned by the
founder of Open Claw. So, you know, it's
it's pretty decent, right? And that's
basically it for how to use it, how to
install it, why you would use it, what
you get, etc. Right? Now, if you want
the full video notes on this, you get it
inside the AR profit boarding with a
full step-by-step framework for using
this and also a examples of use cases.
So, live builds you could create, plus a
30-day road map on exactly how to
implement this so that you can get the
most out of your AI agent and its
memory. On top of that, we've also given
you 100 prompts that you can use to test
this. So, for example, like memory setup
prompts, you've got, for example, client
management prompts, etc. for using
lossless claw with open claw to get the
most out of it. So, that's all inside
the AI profitable boardroom link in the
comments in description. This is my AI
automation community that helps you
learn, save time, scale with AI
automation. You might be wondering,
okay, like what are people's results
with this? So, you can actually see we
have over 137 pages of testimonials from
people just winning with this school
community. So, lots of people just
getting awesome wins and growing and
learning, and it's all about just
helping and supporting each other um
whilst we're all learning AI automation.
On top of that, you also get a community
of 2,600 people, which means there's
always people online that you can learn
from and ask questions to, etc., which
is awesome. And then inside the calendar
here, you can jump on live video
coaching calls. So these are live video
coaching calls where you can ask
questions, get help, get support in real
time, share your screen, meet the rest
of the community. You can meet people in
your local area, no matter where you are
in the world. And then also inside the
classroom, you can get all of my best
training. So you can go from beginner to
expert with AI automation and learn how
to build your first AI agent in under 5
minutes. You can also, for example, get
my best playbooks on how to automate X
and newsletters and shorts and Instagram
and AI avatar videos, all based on
what's working for me and what I
actually use day-to-day. If you want to
see the new latest updates, including
the video notes from today, you can get
that inside the SOP update section here.
So, we have a full 6-hour course on how
to use OpenClaw, another 3-hour course
right here. And we update this daily
with like new updates for OpenClaw. You
know, yesterday we compared Gen Claw
versus OpenClaw. We also covered the new
update from OpenClaw. Every single day
there's something new that's out and
every single day we create full
step-by-step guides and video tutorials
so you can learn this stuff and actually
implement it. Additionally, you can
learn how to get more clients with the
agency course. You can learn how to rank
number one with AI SEO on Google and AI
search engines here. And you can learn
how to grow a YouTube channel with AI
based on what's working for me using
this road map. So that's all inside the
AI profit board link in the comments
description or go to the
aiprofitbom.com.